# Contributing to PNRR

Before contributing please check the contribution guideline. You are recommended to check the following guides:

-   [Angular Style Guide][angularstyleguide]
-   [Angular Testing Guide][angulartestingguide]
-   [CSS Flex Guide][cssflexguide]
-   [CSS Grid Guide][cssgridguide]
-   [SASS Guidelines][sassguidelines]

## Testing

After every task add the corresponding tests in the `*.spec.ts` files. To execute the tests run `ng test`.

For unit testing with Angular consult the [Angular Testing guide][angulartestingguide]

## HTML and CSS Styling

Try to write your component styles based on the following guidelines:

-   Do **not** use inline styles unless it is absolutely necessary.
-   Do **not** use `!important` in CSS styles.
-   Avoid using `<br/>` for HTML spacing. Use CSS `margin` property. Use `<br>` only for text paragraphs spacing.
-   Use class names following the **kebab-case** convention.
-   Generic styles are in the **styles** folder following the [7-1 pattern][pattern71]
-   Try to use **CSS Flex** and **CSS Grid** for custom page layouts.

## Angular Code Styling

-   Make modular components structure, avoid very large TypeScript or HTML files.
-   Proper use of variable and component names. Be aware of naming conventions on each case (HTML, CSS, TypeScript etc. ).
-   Auto format code before commit or pull request.
-   Never use `console.log()` . Use the `NGXLogger` service.
-   For details about Angular coding style recommendations check the [Angular Coding Style guide][angularcodestyleguide].



[angularstyleguide]: https://angular.io/guide/styleguide
[angulartestingguide]: https://angular.io/guide/testing
[cssflexguide]: https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/
[cssgridguide]: https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/complete-guide-grid/
[sassguidelines]: https://sass-guidelin.es/
[pattern71]: https://sass-guidelin.es/#the-7-1-pattern
[angularcodestyleguide]: https://angular.io/guide/styleguide#angular-coding-style-guide


## Excel JS - Excel Workbook Manager

The export of client-side Excel files is possible by using the json files generated by the project processes. To handle the Excel file creation it is used the ExcelJS package.
Excel JS is a package useful to read, manipulate and write spreadsheet data and styles to xlsx and json. Some of the features provided are:

-   Create a workbook
-   Create a worksheet
-   Headers and footers handling
-   Rows, cells and columns data handling
-   Many other functionalities...

To install Excel JS it is recommended to use npm:

    npm install exceljs

And import it from 'exceljs'. The version used in this project is the 4.3.0.

EscelJS use is to manage and generate xlsx file. First it is necessary to create a Workbook and add a Worksheet within the book. The next step is to map the columns, using the source file header, and populate rows with data acquired from the source file. The last step is to generate the file and export it in the format desired (e.g. xlsx).
